a very profitable job and a great help
to me
this was another advantage gained by my
being able to write
the utility of this currency became by
time and experience
so evident as never afterward to be much
disputed so that it grew soon
to 55 000 pounds and in 1739
to 80 000 pounds since which it rose
during war to upwards
of 350 000 pounds trade building
and inhabitants all the while increased
though i now think
there are limits beyond which the
quantity may be hurtful
begin footnote paper money is a promise
to pay its face value in gold or silver
when a state or nation issues more such
promises
then there is likelihood of its being
able to redeem
the paper representing the promises
depreciates in value
before the success of the colonies in
the revolution was assured
it took hundreds of dollars of their
paper money to buy
a pair of boots and footnote
i soon after obtained through my friend
hamilton
the printing of the newcastle paper
money another profitable job
as i then thought it small things
appearing great to those in small
circumstances
and these to me were really great
advantages
as they were great encouragements he
procured for me
also the printing of the laws and votes
of the government
which continued in my hand as long as i
followed the business
i now opened a little stationers shop i
had in it blanks of all sorts
the correctest that ever appeared among
us being assisted in that
by my friend brenet nal i had
also paper parchment chapman's books etc
one white marsh a compositor i had known
in london
an excellent workman now came to me and
worked with me continuously and
diligently
and i took an apprentice the son of
aquila rose
i began gradually to pay off the debt i
was under for the printing house
in order to secure my credit and
character as a tradesman
i took care not only to be in reality
industrious and frugal
but to avoid all appearances to the
contrary
i dressed plainly i was seen in no
places of idol diversion
i never went out a fishing or shooting
a book indeed sometimes debauched me
from my work
but that was seldom snug and gave no
scandal
and to show i was not above my business
i sometimes brought home the paper i
purchased at the stores
through the streets on a wheelbarrow
thus being esteemed as an industrious
thriving young
man and paying duly for what i bought
the merchants who imported stationery
solicited
my custom others proposed supplying me
with books
i went on swimmingly in the meantime
kymer's credit and business declining
daily
he was at last forced to sell his
printing house
to satisfy his creditors he went to
barbados
and there lived some years in very poor
circumstances
his apprentice david harry whom i had
instructed while i worked with him
set up in his place at philadelphia
having bought his materials
i was at first apprehensive of a
powerful rival in harry
as his friends were very able and had a
good deal of interest
i therefore posed a partnership to him
which he fortunately for me
rejected was scorn he was very proud
dressed like a gentleman lived
expensively
took much diversion and pleasure abroad
ran in debt
and neglected his business upon which
all business left him and finding
nothing to do
he followed kymer to barbados taking the
printing house with him
there this apprentice employed his
former master as a journeyman
they quarreled often harry went
continually
behind hand and at length was forced to
sell his types
and return to his country work in
pennsylvania
the person that bought them employed
kymer to use them
but in a few years he died there
remained now no competitor with me in
philadelphia
but the old one bradford who was rich
and easy
did a little printing now and then by
straggling hands
but was not very anxious about the
business however
he kept the post office it was imagined
he had better opportunities of obtaining
news
his paper was thought a better
distributor of advertisements than mine
and therefore had many more which was a
profitable thing to him
and a disadvantage to me for though i
did indeed receive and send papers by
the post
yet the public opinion was otherwise
for what i did send was by bribing the
writers
who took them privately bradford being
unkind enough to forbid it
which occasioned some resentment on my
part and i thought
so meanly of him for it that
when i afterward came into his situation
i took care never to imitate it
i had hitherto continued to board with
godfrey
who lived in part of my house with his
wife and children
and had one side of the shop for his
glazers business
though he worked little being always
absorbed in his mathematics
mrs godfrey projected a match for me
with a relations daughter
took opportunities of bringing us often
together
till a serious courtship on my part
ensued the girl being in herself
very deserving the old folks encouraged
me by continual
invitations to supper and by leaving us
together
till at length it was time to explain
mrs godfrey managed our little treaty
i let her know that i expected as much
money with
their daughter as would pay off my
remaining debt for the printing house
which i believe was not then above a
hundred pounds
she brought me word they had no such sum
to spare
i said they might mortgage their house
in the loan office
the answer to this after some days was
that they did not approve the match
that on inquiry of bradford they had
been informed the printing business was
not a profitable one
the types would soon be worn out and
more wanted
that s kymer and d harry had failed one
after the other
and i should probably soon follow them
and therefore
i was forbidden the house and the
daughter shut up
whether this was a real change of
sentiment or only artifice
on a supposition of our being too far
engaged in affection
to retract and therefore that we should
steal a marriage
which would leave them at liberty to
give or withhold
what they pleased i know not but i
suspect the latter
resented it and went no more
mrs godfrey brought me afterwards some
more favorable accounts of their
disposition
and would have drawn me on again but i
declared absolutely my
resolution to have nothing more to do
with that family
this was resented by the godfreys we
differed
and they removed leaving me the whole
house
and i resolved to take no more inmates
but this affair having turned my
thoughts to marriage
i looked around me and made overtures of
acquaintances
in other places but soon found that the
business of a printer being generally
thought a poor one
i was not to expect money with a wife
unless with such a one as i should not
otherwise think agreeable
a friendly correspondence as neighbors
and old acquaintances
had continued between me and mrs reed's
family
who all had a regard for me from the
time of my first lodging in their house
i was often invited there and consulted
in their affairs
wherein i sometimes was of service i
pitied poor miss reed's
unfortunate situation who was generally
dejected
seldom cheerful and avoided company
i considered my giddiness and
inconsistency when in london
as a great degree the cause of her
unhappiness
though the mother was good enough to
think the fault more
her own than mine as she had prevented
our marrying
before i went thither and persuaded the
other match
in my absence our mutual affection
was revived but there was now great
objections to our union
the match was indeed looked upon as
invalid
a preceding wife being said to be living
in england
but this could not easily be proved
because of the distance
and though there was a report of his
death it was not certain
then though it should be true he had
left many debts
which his successor might be called upon
to pay
we ventured however over all these
difficulties
and i took her to wife september 1st
1730 none of the inconveniences happened
that we had apprehended she proved a
good and faithful help
mate assisted me much by attending the
shop
we throw together and have ever mutually
endeavored to make each other happy
thus i corrected that great aratum as
well as i could
begin footnote mrs franklin survived her
marriage over 40 years
franklin's correspondence abounds with
evidence that their union was a happy
one
we are grown old together and if she has
any faults
i am so used to them that i don't
perceive them
the following is a stanza from one of
franklin's
own songs written for the junta
of their chloes and phyllises poets may
prate
i sing my plain country joan these
twelve years my wife
still the joy of my life blessed day
that i made her my own
end of footnote about this time our club
meeting
not at a tavern but in a little room of
mr grace's
set apart for that purpose a proposition
was made by me
that since our books were often referred
to in our disquotations
upon the queries it might be convenient
for us to have them together
where we met that upon occasion they
might be consulted
and by thus clubbing our books to a
common library
we should while we like to keep them
together have each of us the advantage
of using the books of all the other
members which would be nearly as
beneficial
as if we each owned the whole it was
liked and agreed to
and we filled one end of the room with
such books as we could
best spare the number was not so great
as we expected and though
they had been of great use yet some
inconveniences
occurring for want of due care of them
the collection
after about a year was separated and
each
took his books home again and now i set
on foot my first project of a public
nature
that for a subscription library i drew
up the proposals
got them put into the form by our great
scrivener
brockton and by the help of my friends
in the
junta procured 50 subscribers of
40 shillings each to begin with and 10
shillings a year for
50 years the term our company was to
continue
we afterwards obtained a charter the
company being increased
to 100 thus the mother of all the north
american subscription libraries
now so numerous it is become a great
thing itself
and continually increasing these
libraries have improved the general
conversation of the americans
made the common tradesmen and farmers as
intelligent
and most gentlemen from other countries
and perhaps have contributed in some
degree
to the stand so generally made through
the colonies
in defense of their privileges thus far
was written with the intention expressed
in the beginning
and therefore contains several little
family anecdotes of no importance to
others
what follows was written many years
after in compliance
with the advice contained in these
letters and accordingly intends for the
public
the affairs of the revolution occasioned
the interruption
begin footnote here the first part of
the autobiography written at twyford in
ends the second part which follows was
written in passing
in 1784 after this memorandum
franklin inserted letters from abel
james and benjamin vaughn
urging him to continue his autobiography
end of footnote it is some time since i
received the above letters
but i have been too busy till now to
think of complying with the requests
they contain
it might too be much better done if i
were at home among my papers
which would aid my memory and help to
ascertain dates
but my return being uncertain and having
just now a little
leisure i will endeavor to recollect and
write what i can
if i live to get home it may be
corrected and improved
not having any copy here of what is
already written
i know not whether an account is given
of the means i used
to establish the philadelphia public
library which
from a small beginning is now become so
considerable
though i remember to have come down to
near the time
of that transaction i will therefore
begin here
an account of it which may be struck out
if found to have been already given
at the time i established myself in
philadelphia there was not a good
bookseller shop
in any of the colonies to the southward
of boston
in new york and philadelphia the
printers were indeed stationers
they sold only paper etc almanacs
ballads and a few common school books
those who loved reading were obliged to
send for their books from england
and members of the shinta had each a few
we had left the ale house where we first
met and hired a room to hold our
club in i proposed that we should all of
us bring
our books to that room where they would
not only be ready to consult in our
conferences
but become a common benefit each of us
being at liberty to borrow
such as he wished to read at home this
was accordingly done
and for some time contended us finding
the advantage of this little collection
i propose to render the benefit from
books more common
i commencing a public subscription
library
i drew a sketch from the plan and rules
that would be necessary
and got a skillful conveyancer mr
charles brockton
to put the whole in form of articles of
agreement to be subscribed
by which each subscriber engaged to pay
a certain sum down
for the first purchase of books and an
annual contribution for increasing them
so few were the readers at that time in
philadelphia
and the majority of us so poor that i
was not able
with great industry to find more than 50
persons
mostly young tradesmen willing to pay
down
for this purpose 40 shillings each and
ten shillings per annum
on this little fund we began the books
were imported
the library was opened one day in the
week for lending to the subscribers
on their promissory notes to pay double
the value
if not duly returned the institution
soon manifested its utility was imitated
by other towns
and in other provinces the libraries
were augmented by donations
reading became fashionable and our
people
having no public amusements to divert
their attention from study
became better acquainted with books and
in a few years
were observed by strangers to be better
instructed
and more intelligent than people of the
same rank generally are
in other countries when we were about to
sign the above mentioned articles
which were to be binding on us our heirs
etc for 50 years
mr brockton the scrivener said to us you
are young men
but it is scarcely probable that any of
you will live to see the expiration of
the term
fixed in this instrument a number of us
however are yet living
but the instrument was after a few years
rendered null by a charter
that incorporated and gave perpetuity to
the company
the objections and reluctances i met
with in soliciting the subscriptions
made me soon feel the impropriety of
presenting oneself
as the proposer of any useful project
that might be supposed to raise one's
reputation
in the smallest degree above that of
one's neighbors
when one has need of their assistance to
accomplish that project
i therefore put myself as much as i
could out of sight
and stated it was a scheme of a number
of
friends who requested me to go about and
propose it
to such as they thought lovers of
reading
in this way my affair went on more
smoothly
and i ever after practiced it on such
occasions
and from my frequent successes can
heartily recommend it
the present little sacrifice of your
vanity will afterward be amply repaid
if it remains a while uncertain to whom
the merit belongs
someone more vain than yourself will be
encouraged to claim it
and then even envy will be disposed to
you
justice by plucking those assumed
feathers
and restoring them to their right owner
the library afforded me the means of
improvement by constant study for which
i set apart an hour or two each day
and thus repaired in some degree the
loss of the learned education my father
once
intended for me reading was the only
amusement i allowed myself
i spent no time in taverns games or
frolicks of any kind
and my industry and my business
continued as indefatigable
as it was necessary i was indebted
for my printing house i had a young
family coming on to be educated
and i had to contend with for business
two printers who were established in the
place before me
my circumstances however grew daily
easier
my original habits of frugality
continued and my father having among his
instructions to me when a boy
frequently repeated a proverb of solomon
sees thou a man diligent in his calling
he shall stand before kings
he shall not stand before mean men
i from thence considered industry as a
means
of obtaining wealth and distinction
which encouraged me
though i did not think that i should
ever literally
stand before kings which however
has since happened for i have stood
before
five and even had the honor of sitting
down
with one the king of denmark to dinner
we have an english proverb that says he
that would thrive
must ask his wife it was lucky for me
that i had one as much disposed to
industry and frugality as myself
she assisted me cheerfully in my
business
folding and stitching pamphlets tending
shop purchasing old linen rags
for the paper makers etc etc
we kept no idle servants our table was
plain and simple
our furniture of the cheapest for
instance my breakfast
was a long time break and milk
no tea and i ate it out of a tupini
earthen
porridger with a pewter spoon but
mark how luxury will enter families and
make a progress in spite of principle
being called one morning to breakfast i
found it in a china bowl
with a spoon of silver they had been
bought for me without my knowledge by my
wife
and it cost her the enormous sum of 3
and 20 shillings
for which she had no excuse or apology
to make
but that she thought her husband
deserved
a silver spoon and a china bowl as well
as any of his neighbors
this was the first appearance of plate
and china in our house
which afterward in a course of years as
our wealth increased
augmented it gradually to several
hundred pounds in value
i had been religiously educated as a
presbyterian
and thought some of the dogmas of that
persuasion
such as the eternal decrees of god
election
reprobation etc appeared to me
unintelligible others doubtful
and i early absented myself from the
public
assemblies of the sect sunday being my
study day
i never was without some religious
principles i never doubted for instance
the existence of the deity
that he made the world and governed it
by his providence
that the most acceptable service of god
was the doing good to man that our souls
are immortal
and that all crime will be punished and
virtue rewarded
either here or hereafter these i
esteemed the essentials of every
religion
and being to be found in all the
religions
we had in our country i respected them
all though with different degrees of
respect
as i found them more or less mixed with
other articles
which without any tendency to inspire
promote
or confirm morality served principally
to divide us
and made us unfriendly to each other
this respect to all
with an opinion that the worst had some
good effects
induced me to avoid all discourse that
might tend to lessen
the good opinion another might have of
his own religion
and as our province increased in
people and new places of worship were
continually wanted
and generally erected by voluntary
contribution
my might for such purpose whatever might
be the sect
was never refused though i seldom
attended any public worship
i had still an opinion of its propriety
and its utility
when rightly conducted and i regularly
paid my annual subscription for the
support
of the only presbyterian minister or
meeting
we had in philadelphia he used to visit
me sometimes as a friend
and admonished me to attend his
administrations
and i was now and then prevailed on to
do so
once for five sundays successively had
he been in my opinion a good preacher
perhaps i might have continued
notwithstanding the occasion i had for
the sunday's leisure
in my course of study but his discourses
were chiefly either
polemic arguments or expectations of
the particular doctrines of our sect and
were all to me very dry
uninteresting and unedifying since not a
single moral principle
was inculcated or enforced their aim
seemed to be rather to make us
presbyterians than good citizens
at length he took for his text that
verse of the fourth chapter of
philippians
finally brethren whatsoever things are
true
honest just pure lovely
or of good report if there be any virtue
or any praise
think on these things and i imagined in
a sermon on such a text
he would not miss of having some
morality
but he confined himself to the five
points only as meant by the apostle
these one keeping hold of the sabbath
day
two being diligent in reading the holy
scriptures
three attending duly the public worship
for partaking of the sacrament 5.
paying a due respect to god's ministers
these might be all good things but as
they were not the kind of good things
that i expected from that
text i despaired of ever meeting with
them from any other
was disgusted and attended his preaching
no more
i had some years before composed a
little liturgy
or a form of prayer for my own private
use
visa in 1728 entitled
articles of belief in active religion i
returned to the use of
this and went no more to the public
assemblies
my conduct might be blamable but i leave
it
without attempting further to excuse it
my present purpose being to relate facts
and not to make apologies for them end
of chapter 8.
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter nine
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit
librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank woodward pine
chapter 9 plan for attaining moral
perfection
it was about this time i conceived the
bold and arduous project
of arriving at moral perfection i wish
to live without committing any fault
at any time i would conquer all that
either natural inclination
custom or company might lead me into
as i knew or thought i knew what was
right and wrong
i did not see why i might not always do
the one
and avoid the other but i soon found
that i had undertaken a task
more difficult than i had imagined while
my care was employed
in guarding against one fault i was
often surprised by another
habit took the advantage of inattention
inclination was sometimes too strong for
reason
i concluded at length that the mere
speculative
conviction that it was our interest to
be completely virtuous
was not sufficient to prevent our
slipping and that the contrary habits
must be broken
and good ones acquired and established
before we can have
any dependence on a steady uniform
resistitude of conduct
for this purpose i therefore contrived
the following method
in the various enumerations of the moral
virtues i had met with in my reading
i found the catalog more or less
numerous
as different writers included more or
fewer ideas
under the same name temperance for
example
was by some confined to eating and
drinking
while by others it was extended to mean
the moderating every
other pleasure appetite inclination
or passion bodily or mental
even to our avarious and ambition
i propose to myself for the sake of
clearness to use rather more names
and fewer ideas annexed to each than a
few names with more ideas
and i included under 13 names of virtues
all that at that time occurred to me as
necessary or desirable
and i annexed to each a short precept
which fully expressed the extent i gave
to its meaning
these names of virtues with their
precepts were
one temperance eat not to dullness
drink not to elevation 2.
silence speak not but what may benefit
others or yourself avoid a trifling
conversation
3. order let all your things have their
place
let each part of your business have its
time
four resolution resolve to perform
what you ought perform without fail what
you resolve
five frugality make no expense but to do
good
to others or yourself i.e waste
nothing six industry
lose no time be always employed in
something useful
cut off all unnecessary actions
seven sincerity use no hurtful deceit
think innocently and justly and
if you speak speak accordingly
8. justice wrong done by doing injuries
or omitting the benefits that are your
duty
9. moderation avoid extremes
forbear resenting injuries so much
as you think they deserve 10.
cleanliness tolerate no uncleanliness in
body
clothes or habitation 11.
tranquility be not disturbed at trifles
or at accidents common or unavoidable
12 chastity 13
humility imitate jesus and socrates
my intention being to acquire the
habitude
of all these virtues i judged it would
be well not to distract my attention
by attempting the whole at once but to
fix it
on one of them at a time and when i
should be master of that
then to proceed to another and so on
till i should have gone
through the thirteen and as the previous
acquisition of some might facilitate the
acquisition of certain others
i arranged them with that in view as
they stand above
temperance first as it tends to produce
that
coolness and clearness of head which is
so necessary
when constant vigilance has to be kept
up and
guard maintained against the unremitting
attraction of ancient habits
and the force of perpetual temptations
this being acquired and established
silence would be more easy
and my desire being to gain knowledge at
the same time that i
improved in virtue and considering
that in conversation it was obtained
rather by the use of the ears
than of the tongue and therefore wishing
to break the habit
i was getting into of prattling punting
and joking which only made me acceptable
to trifling company
i gave silence the second place
this and the next order i
it would allow me more time for
attending to my project
and my studies resolution
once become habitual would keep me firm
in my endeavors
to obtain all the subsequent virtues
frugality
and industry freeing me from my
remaining debt
and producing affluence and independence
would make more easily the practice of
sincerity
and justice etc etc conceiving
then that agreeably to the advice of
pythagoras in his golden verses daily
examination would be necessary
i contrived the following method for
conducting that examination
i made a little book in which i allotted
a page for each of the virtues
i ruled each page with red ink so as to
have seven columns
one for each day of the week marking
each column with a letter for the day
i crossed these columns with 13 red
lines
marking the beginning of each line with
the first letter of one of the virtues
on which line and in its proper column i
might mark
by a little black spot every fault i
found upon
examination to have been committed
respecting that virtue
upon that day footnote pythagoras was a
famous greek philosopher
who lived about 582 to 500 bc
the golden verses here ascribe to him
are probably of later origin
the time which he recommends for this
work is about
even or bedtime that we may conclude the
action of the day
with the judgment of conscience making
the examination of our convention
an evening song to god and a footnote
i determined to give a week's strict
attention to each of the virtues
successively thus in the first week my
great guard was to avoid
every the least offense against
temperance
leaving the other virtues to their
ordinary chance
only marking every evening the faults of
the day
thus if in the first week i could keep
my first line marked
t clear of spots i supposed the habit of
that virtue
so much strengthened and its opposite
weakened
that i might venture extending my
attention to include
the next and for the following week keep
both lines clear of spots
proceeding thus to the last i would go
through a course complete in 13 weeks
and four courses in a year and like him
who
having a garden to weed does not attempt
to eradicate
all the bad herbs at once which would
exceed his reach and his strength
but works on one of the beds at a time
and having accomplished the first
proceeds to a second
so i should have i hoped the encouraging
pleasure of
seeing on my pages the progress i made
in virtue
by clearing successively my lines of
their
spots till at the end
by a number of courses i should be happy
in viewing a clean
book after a 13 weeks daily examination
this my little book head for its motto
these lines from
addison's cattle here will i
hold if there is a power above us
and that there is all nature cries
allowed
through all her works he must delight in
virtue
and that which he delights in must be
happy
another from cicero o philosophy guide
of life
o searcher out of virtue and
exterminator of vice
one day spent well and in accordance
with thy precepts
is worth an immortality of sin
tusculian inquiries book five
another of the proverbs of solomon
speaking of wisdom or virtue
length of days is in her right hand and
in her left hand
riches and honor her ways are
ways of pleasantness and all her paths
are peace
and conceiving god to be the fountain of
wisdom i thought it right and necessary
to solicit his assistance for obtaining
it to this
end i formed the following little prayer
which was prefixed
to my tables of examination for daily
use
o powerful goodness bountiful father
merciful guide increasing me that wisdom
which discovers my truest
interest strengthen my resolution to
perform
what that wisdom dictates accept my kind
offices to thy other children
as the only return in my power for thy
continual favors
to me i used also sometimes a little
prayer
which i took from thompson's poems peace
father of light and life thou good
supreme
o teach me what is good teach me thy
self
save me from folly vanity and vice from
every low pursuit and fill my soul
with knowledge conscious peace and
virtue pure
sacred substantial never fading bliss
the precept of order requiring that
every part of my business
should have its allotted time one page
of my little book contained the
following scheme
employed for the 24 hours of a natural
day
five rise wash and address
six powerful goodness
contrived day's business and take the
resolution of the day
seven prosecute the present study and
breakfast
the morning question what good shall i
do this day
nine work twelve noon
read or overlook my accounts and dine
three work evening
six put things in their places
supper music or diversion or
conversation
evening question what could have i done
today
nine examination of the day night
10 sleep i entered upon the execution of
this plan for self-examination
and continued it with occasional
intermissions for some time
i was surprised to find myself so much
fuller of faults than i had imagined
but i had the satisfaction of seeing
them diminish
to avoid the trouble of renewing now and
then my little book
which by scraping out the marks on the
paper of old faults to make room for new
ones
in a new course became full of holes i
transferred my tables and precepts
to the ivory leaves of a memorandum book
on which the lines were drawn with red
ink
that made a durable stain and on those
lines i marked my faults
with a black lead pencil which marks i
could easily wipe out with a wet sponge
after a while i went through one course
only
in a year and afterward only one in
several years
till at length i omitted them entirely
being employed
in voyages and business abroad with a
multiplicity of affairs that interfered
but i always carried my little book with
me my scheme of order gave me the most
trouble and i found that though it might
be practicable
or a man's business was such as to leave
him the disposition of his time
that of a journeyman printer for
instance it was not possible to be
exactly observed by a master
who must mix with the world and often
receive people of business
at their own hour order too with regard
to places for things
papers etc i found extremely difficult
to acquire
i had not been early accustomed to it
and
having an exceeding good memory i was
not so sensible of the inconvenience
attending want of method this article
therefore cost me so much painful
attention
and my faults and it vexed me so much
and i made so little progress in
amendment
and had such frequent relapses that i
was
almost ready to give up the attempt and
content myself with a faulty character
in that respect
like the man who in buying an axe for a
smith
my neighbor desired to have the hole of
its surface as bright as the edge
the smith consented to grind it bright
for him
if he would turn the wheel he turned
while the smith
pressed the broad face of the axe hard
and heavily on the stone
which made the turning of it very
fatiguing the man came
every now and then from the wheel to see
how the work went on
and at length would take his axe as it
was
without further grinding no said this
myth
turn on turn on we shall have it right
by and by
as yet it is only speckled yes says the
man
but i think i like a speckled axe best
and i believe this may have been the
case with many who
having for what of some such means as i
employed found the difficulty of
obtaining good and breaking bad habits
in other points of vice and virtue have
given up the struggle and concluded that
a speckled axe was best for something
that pretended to be reason
was every now and then suggested to me
that such extreme nicety as i
exacted of myself might be a kind of
falpary in morals which if it were known
it would make me ridiculous that a
perfect character might be attended with
the inconvenience
of being envied and hated and that a
benevolent man
should allow a few faults in himself to
keep his friends
incontinence footnote professor mcmaster
tells us
that when franklin was american agent in
france
his lack of business order was a source
of annoyance to his colleagues and
friends
strangers who came to see him were
amazed to behold papers
of the greatest importance scattered in
the most careless way
over the table and floor and footnote
in truth i found myself encourageable
with respect to order
and now i am grown old and my memory bad
i feel
very sensibly the want of it but on the
whole though i never arrived at the
perfection
i had been so ambitious obtaining but
fell
far short of it yet i was by the
endeavor
a better and a happier man than i
otherwise
should have been if i had not attempted
it
as those who aim at perfect writing by
imitating the engraved copies
though they never reach the wished for
excellence
of those copies their hand is mended by
the endeavor
and is tolerable while it continues fair
and legible
it may be well my posterity should be
informed
that to this little artifice with the
blessing of god
their ancestor owed the constant
felicity
of his life down to his 79th year
in which this is written what reverses
may attend the remainder is in the hand
of providence but if they arrive the
reflection on
past happiness enjoyed ought to help
is bearing them with more resignation to
temperance he ascribes his long
continued health
and what is still left to him of a good
constitution
to industry and frugality the early
easiness of his circumstances and
acquisition
of his fortune with all that knowledge
that enabled him to be a useful citizen
and obtain for him some degree of
reputation among the learned
sincerity and justice the confidence of
his country
and the honorable employees it conferred
upon him
and to the joint influence of the whole
mass of the virtues
even in the imperfect state he was able
to acquire them
all that evenness of temper and that
cheerfulness in conversation
which makes his company still sought for
and agreeable even to his younger
acquaintance i hope therefore that some
of my descendants may follow the example
and reap the benefit footnote while
there can be no question that franklin's
moral improvement
and happiness were due to the practice
of these virtues
yet most people will agree that we shall
have to go back
of his plan for the impelling motive to
a virtuous life
franklin's own suggestion that the
scheme smacks of
falpary immorals seems justified woodrow
wilson well puts it
men do not take fire from such thoughts
unless something deeper
which is missing here shines through
them
what may have seemed to the 18th century
a system of morals
seems to us nothing more vital than a
collection of the precepts of good sense
and sound conduct what redeems it from
pettiness
in this book is the scope of power and
of usefulness
to be seen in franklin himself who set
these standards up in
all seriousness and candor for his own
life
see galatians chapter 5 for the
christian plan
of moral perfection and footnote
it will be remarked that though my
scheme was not holy without religion
there was in it no mark of any of the
distinguishing tenants
of any particular sect i had purposely
avoided them
for being fully persuaded of the utility
in excellence